CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Contributing

## Important notes
Please don't edit files in the `dist` subdirectory as they are generated via Grunt. You'll find source code in the `src` subdirectory!

### Code style
Regarding code style like indentation and whitespace, **follow the conventions you see used in the source already.**

### PhantomJS
While Grunt can run the included unit tests via [PhantomJS](http://phantomjs.org/), this shouldn't be considered a substitute for the real thing. Please be sure to test the `test/*.html` unit test file(s) in _actual_ browsers.

## Modifying the code
First, ensure that you have the latest [Node.js](http://nodejs.org/) and [npm](http://npmjs.org/) installed.

Test that Grunt's CLI is installed by running `grunt --version`.  If the command isn't found, run `npm install -g grunt-cli`.  For more information about installing Grunt, see the [getting started guide](http://gruntjs.com/getting-started).

1. Fork and clone the repo.
1. Run `npm install` to install all dependencies (including Grunt).
1. Run `grunt` to grunt this project.

Assuming that you don't see any red, you're ready to go. Just be sure to run `grunt` after making any changes, to ensure that nothing is broken.

## Submitting pull requests

1. Create a new branch, please don't work in your `master` branch directly.
1. Add failing tests for the change you want to make. Run `grunt` to see the tests fail.
1. Fix stuff.
1. Run `grunt` to see if the tests pass. Repeat steps 2-4 until done.
1. Open `test/*.html` unit test file(s) in actual browser to ensure tests pass everywhere.
1. Update the documentation to reflect any changes.
1. Push to your fork and submit a pull request.

Commit message:

modernization POC: adapt CONTRIBUTING file

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Contributing

## Important notes
Please don't edit files in the `dist` subdirectory as they are generated via Webpack 2.
 
You'll find source code in the `app` subdirectory!

### Code style
Regarding code style like indentation and whitespace, **follow the conventions you see used in the source already.**

### Jest
While Jest is used for unit tests, this shouldn't be considered a substitute for the real thing. Please be sure that feature is working by opening `index.html` in _actual_ browsers.

## Modifying the code
First, ensure that you have the latest [Node.js](http://nodejs.org/) and [npm](http://npmjs.org/) installed.

1. Fork and clone the repo.
1. Run `npm install` to install all dependencies.

Just be sure to run existing tests after making any changes, to ensure that nothing is broken.

## Submitting pull requests

1. Create a new branch, please don't work in your `master` branch directly.
1. Add failing tests for the change you want to make. Run `npm test` to see the tests fail.
1. Add changes / Fix stuff.
1. Run `npm test` to see if the tests pass. Repeat steps 2-4 until done.
1. Open `index.html` in actual browser to ensure feature is working.
1. Update the documentation to reflect any changes.
1. Push to your fork and submit a pull request.
